I had some other things I wanted to do
around campus but I figured you know how
many chances am I gonna get in my life
to fire a cannon at this age our whole
purpose is to make sure that the skipper
is maintained correctly fired safely and
constantly watched over that's our job
I'm the gun captain of skipper crew we
are one unit so we always work together
but I'm just there to make sure that
everything goes smoothly so juniors will
bring us out here and they'll
demonstrate everything that happens and
then they'll walk us through it you have
to learn history of the skipper about
how important safety is to the skipper
and the crew around it and gradually
they'll start letting us do it to make
sure we become proficient before we ever
actually fire skipper was originally
thought about fire to cadets the big
rival between VMI and VPI was still
going on we went to a football game and
the mize cadets had a little cannon they
would fire it after every touchdown and
constantly chant where's your cannon
where's a cannon we fire at football
games after every touchdown every form
will retreat during the national anthem
or other sandwich such as the Matt
Laporte 5k run gameday is really
exciting we meet out here an hour too
early yet everything shined up it's
amazing going through Blacksburg
everybody's waving at you cheering we
usually have two or three people Manning
the guns and rolling charges in an
aluminum foil for Rideau we'll put the
charge in the front of the barrel and
Ram it down so that the charges nicely
packed then the gun captain whoever's
going to pull the lanyard it's going to
put a hole into the charge so that
ignites correctly prime it which is the
ignition source and then is ready to
fire cannon are after the cannons fired
do we have this funny little instrument
that goes down to the barrel to get the
extra aluminum foil pieces out and then
we'll have another instrument that wets
the barrel and then we'll sign the
barrel and then you're ready to load
again everybody's trained in every job
so everybody gets a chance to fire not
only is it nice to have people that
close to you but it's important also
because safety is our number-one
priority and it's a lot easier to be
safe around people you care about and
they care about you I think one of our
favorite parts is the first time the
freshmen hear the cannon ever it's
always good to see them jump out of
their skin
I remember being a freshman and jumping
so that was pretty startling but I'd
have to say my absolute favorite part of
being on skipper crew is pulling the
lanyard